arXiv:2506.13497v1  [cs.DC]  16 Jun 2025

DDiT: Dynamic Resource Allocation for Diffusion
Transformer Model Serving

Heyang Huang∗1,2 Cunchen Hu∗1,2, Jiaqi Zhu1,2, Ziyuan Gao1,2, Liangliang Xu3, Yizhou Shan4,
Yungang Bao1,2, Sun Ninghui1,2, Tianwei Zhang5, Sa Wang1,2

1University of Chinese Academy of Sciences 2State Key Lab of Processors, Institute of Computing
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences 3Institute of Mathematics and Interdisciplinary Sciences,
Xidian University 4Huawei Cloud 5Nanyang Technological University

Abstract
The Text-to-Video (T2V) model aims to generate dynamic
and expressive videos from textual prompts. The generation
pipeline typically involves multiple modules, such as lan-
guage encoder, Diffusion Transformer (DiT), and Variational
Autoencoders (VAE). Existing serving systems often rely on
monolithic model deployment, while overlooking the distinct
characteristics of each module, leading to inefficient GPU
utilization. In addition, DiT exhibits varying performance
gains across different resolutions and degrees of parallelism,
and significant optimization potential remains unexplored.
To address these problems, we present DDiT, a flexible
system that integrates both inter-phase and intra-phase opti-
mizations. DDiT focuses on two key metrics: optimal degree
of parallelism, which prevents excessive parallelism for spe-
cific resolutions, and starvation time, which quantifies the
sacrifice of each request. To this end, DDiT introduces a de-
coupled control mechanism to minimize the computational
inefficiency caused by imbalances in the degree of paral-
lelism between the DiT and VAE phases. It also designs a
greedy resource allocation algorithm with a novel schedul-
ing mechanism that operates at the single-step granularity,
enabling dynamic and timely resource scaling. Our evalua-
tion on the T5 encoder, OpenSora SDDiT, and OpenSora VAE
models across diverse datasets reveals that DDiT significantly
outperforms state-of-the-art baselines by up to 1.44× in p99
latency and 1.43× in average latency.

1
Introduction
Since the advent of Sora from OpenAI [55], text-to-video
(T2V) generation becomes prevalent and progresses rapidly.
Modern T2V solutions are normally based on the Diffusion
Transformer (DiT) architecture, which outperforms conven-
tional CNN-based methods [2] in generating high-quality
images and videos. Despite their excellent performance, a
significant challenge with DiT lies in their high computa-
tional demands, especially when generating high-resolution
content. This is primarily due to the attention mechanism in
the transformer, which has an 𝑂(𝐿2) complexity relative to

∗Equal contribution.

DiT

GPU

VAE
DiT

GPU

VAE
DiT

GPU
GPU

DiT

GPU

DiT
VAE

GPU

(c) Heter. Deployment
(a) Homo. Deployment
(b) Immut. Deployment

VAE
DiT

GPU

VAE

Figure 1. The deploy architecture of a T2V serving system.

the input token length 𝐿, while DiT needs to process a large
number of tokens in each denoising step [4, 51].
It is important but challenging to develop an efficient T2V
serving system with low latency and high resource utiliza-
tion [20, 22]. A number of techniques have been proposed
to accelerate the video generation process, including distilla-
tion [51], post-training [52], and caching [47]. Unfortunately,
these methods exhibit some limitations, such as requiring ad-
ditional training or compromising the output quality. A more
promising solution, sequence parallelism [24, 26], accelerates
T2V serving by efficiently processing the rich spatial and
temporal information. However, due to the distinct compu-
tational characteristics of different modules in T2V, as well
as different serving requests, existing T2V systems suffer
from large resource utilization inefficiency. We perform an
in-depth investigation to disclose the following limitations.
First, the monolithic model results in inefficient re-
source utilization, as it does not account for distinct
computational requirements of the DiT and VAE com-
ponents. Specifically, as illustrated in Figure 1 (a), existing
systems employ a homogeneous sequence parallelism strat-
egy across both DiT and VAE, with the same degree of paral-
lelism (DoP). However, DiT and VAE exhibit heterogeneous
sequence parallelism due to their different computational de-
mands, even when processing the same request. For instance,
as shown in Figure 5, the computation time of VAE does
not decrease per GPU as the DoP increases. Consequently,
existing deployment fails to account for their distinct char-
acteristics, leading to inefficient resource utilization. One
potential solution, similar as the optimization of large lan-
guage model (LLM) serving [15, 16, 32, 57], is to disaggregate
the DiT and VAE phases and deploy them on independent
GPU groups. As shown in Figure 1 (b), each group deploys
a DiT or VAE instance, tailoring the quantity to meet the
specific requirements of the respective module. However,
1


this immutable grouping strategy often struggles to adapt
to the dynamic resource demands of different phases. The
isolation among groups prevents elastic utilization of GPU
computation, leading to large GPU wastage.
Second, existing T2V serving systems adopt the fixed
deployment configuration to handle dynamical serv-
ing requests, leading to either huge resource wastage or
prolonged latency. DiT is the most time-consuming stage
in T2V, involving multiple denoising steps. Its execution
time depends on numerous factors including the resource
allocation (e.g., number of GPUs), output format (e.g., video
resolution, number of video frames), and model hyperparam-
eters (e.g, number of denoising steps). Specifically, as shown
in Figure 5, to generate higher-resolution videos, a longer ex-
ecution time is required, and it does not always decrease lin-
early as the DoP increases. Therefore, it is crucial to precisely
configure the DoP for different resolutions. Unfortunately,
existing solutions adopt the static DoP on a fixed amount
of GPUs, failing to adapt to the distinct computational de-
mands of different requests. A straightforward approach is to
schedule requests based on their resolutions to optimize the
GPU usage. While it can reduce the computational gap and
improve the resource utilization, it fails to achieve precise
alignment due to the fixed model configuration and diverse
request loads. Moreover, existing scheduling algorithms op-
erate at the request granularity, preventing adaptive resource
reallocation during execution, as shown in Figure 6 (a). It
remains an open question to identify the appropriate DoP
for each specific resolution to achieve efficient scheduling.
To address the above limitations, we propose DDiT, an
efficient T2V model serving system that decouples the model
serving from the DoP of instance, enabling coordinated exe-
cution of DiT and VAE. It employs heterogeneous sequence
parallelism and elastic resource allocation tailored to model
characteristics, scheduling the execution of DiT at the gran-
ularity of steps instead of requests. The novelty of DDiT is
reflected from the following two aspects.
❶Heterogeneous deployment. We decouple DiT and
VAE into independent modules and coordinate them hetero-
geneously as demands. Unlike existing homogeneous deploy-
ment or immutable grouping strategies, we propose a unified
management mechanism that independently loads model
weights and establishes connections. Thus, DDiT can effec-
tively eliminate the resource isolation between immutable
groups and dynamically adjust the number of GPUs allo-
cated to each phase during execution. As shown in Figure 1
(c), DDiT initially loads the model weights into each instance
without pre-defined grouping. During the DiT phase, DDiT
dynamically allocates two GPUs on demand to establish con-
nections and execute the computationally intensive diffusion
process. Upon completion of the DiT phase and transitioning
to the VAE phase, DDiT reduces GPU usage to a single unit,
effectively minimizing the resource redundancy.

❷Stepwise on-demand scheduling. We conduct per-
formance profiling to identify the optimal DoP for each res-
olution, aiming to balance the resource utilization efficiency
and latency. Accordingly, we schedule DiT execution at the
granularity of a single step rather than an entire request, as
shown in Figure 6 (b). This enables the serving system to
process one model step at each time, resolving static alloca-
tion caused by engine initialization during processing. To
this end, we design an engine controller to coordinate GPU
resources and dynamically reschedule per step.
We perform extensive experiments to validate the effec-
tiveness of DDiT. In particular, we compare DDiT with the
state-of-the-art VideoSys [43] when running the OpenSora
model [55]. Our evaluation results show that by dynamically
adjusting the inter-phase and intra-phase GPU resources,
DDiT could reduce the p99 latency by 30.4% and average
latency by 30% over heterogeneous deployment approaches.
The key contributions of this paper are as follows:
• We conduct an in-depth empirical analysis of existing T2V
serving systems in terms of resource utilization and per-
formance characteristics, to disclose two key limitations.
• To address the resource inefficiency between DiT and
VAE caused by their distinct computational capacity, we
develop an engine controller, enabling dynamic model
weights loading and adaptive connections across various
DoP configurations, optimizing the resource utilization.
• To strike a balance between the optimal DoP of each re-
quest and reducing resource wastes caused by static de-
ployment, we design a unified GPU mechanism to manage
resources for model serving. We further propose a greedy
algorithm for scheduling requests at the granularity of
step instead of request, to maximize the GPU utilization.

2
Background

2.1
Diffusion Models
Diffusion models have emerged as the dominant solution
for image and video generation tasks, due to their excep-
tional ability to produce high-quality output [33]. In re-
verse diffusion, the process starts with pure Gaussian noise
𝑥𝑇∼N (0, 𝐼), which is progressively denoised over 𝑇itera-
tive steps using the model 𝜖𝜃, ultimately generating the final
result 𝑥0. Specifically, given the noisy 𝑥𝑡at each step 𝑡, 𝜖𝜃
predicts the noise 𝜖𝑡based on the noisy input 𝑥𝑡, step 𝑡and
an additional input 𝑡(e.g., text). The solver Φ calculates the
output for the previous step using the following equation:

𝑥𝑡−1 = Φ(𝑥𝑡,𝑡,𝜖𝑡),𝜖𝑡= 𝜖𝜃(𝑥𝑡,𝑡,𝑐)
(1)

Diffusion models typically leverage a deep neural network,
with U-Net [11] or DiT as common backbones. Compared to
U-Net, DiT is a more scalable transformer-based architecture,
enabling greater model capacity [8, 54]. The quality of the
image or video, closely tied to its resolution, is critical for

2


“Sunset over the sea”

Diffusion Transformer

Spaital-Attn

Cross-Attn

FFN

Temporal-Attn

Cross-Attn

FFN

Text-Encoder

Self-Attn

FFN

Embedding

Self-Attn

FFN

Variational AutoEncoder

Text Embeded

Temporal-VAE

Spaital-VAE

Figure 2. The architecture of T2V systems.

users [18, 31, 37]. However, higher resolutions lead to a qua-
dratic increase in computational complexity, significantly
affecting the generation latency [51].

2.2
Text-to-Video Generation
Text-to-Video (T2V) [49, 55, 56] is a multimodal generation
task that produces videos from text descriptions, often re-
quiring integrating multiple collaborative modules. We use
one of the most popular open-source T2V model, OpenSora
[25], to illustrate the common architecture of this task.
As shown in Figure 2, OpenSora comprises three critical
modules. (1) The text encoder [28, 42] transforms the in-
put text into semantic feature representations, capturing the
contextual and relational information to guide video genera-
tion effectively. (2) The DiT [33] generates the latent repre-
sentations through a sequence of iterative denoising steps.
The video denoising process reconstructs data from noise
using three types of Transformer blocks: spatial, temporal,
and cross-attention. Spatial blocks capture the relationships
among tokens within the same temporal index; temporal
blocks manage interactions across time; and cross-attention
integrates the conditioning input to ensure coherence and
alignment with the context. (3) The VAE [34] decompresses
latent representations into video frames, reducing the com-
plexity while preserving the essential spatial and temporal
features for efficient video generation. The primary oper-
ators in VAE include convolution, upsampling, and activa-
tion functions, with convolution contributing the most to
the computational density. The convolution kernel involves
generating high-resolution outputs, and its computational
complexity is directly related to the resolution of the in-
put feature map, the size of the convolution kernel, and the
number of output channels [23].

2.3
Model Serving Optimization
Driven by the growing demand for AI applications, espe-
cially generative AI, model serving has become an important
category of workloads in modern data centers, which are typ-
ically equipped with specialized accelerators such as GPUs
or TPUs [29]. The response latency is a critical indicator
for the performance of model serving. In T2V systems, the
latency could be extremely long, especially for generating

1
2
4
8
Batch Size

0

50

100

150

Latency (s)

(a) T2V Charac.

1
2
4
8
Batch Size

0

10

20

Latency (s)

3.01

5.50

10.43

20.08

0.16

0.30

0.59

1.17

(b) DiT & VAE Performance

0.0

0.2

0.4

Thpt. (Req/s)

Lat. 144p
Thpt. 144p

Lat. 240p
Thpt. 240p

Lat. 360p
Thpt. 360p

DiT 144p
VAE 144p

Figure 3. The impact of changing the batch size on the
performance of T2V serving.

high-resolution videos. For instance, the generation time of
one video by OpenAI Sora [55] can reach several minutes
due to the time-intensive attention mechanism. Therefore, it
is urgent to accelerate the model serving systems for better
user experience and economic benefits.
Numerous system-level optimization solutions have been
designed targeting different types of AI tasks. Unfortunately,
it is non-trivial to directly apply them to T2V systems. Specif-
ically, batching is a critical technique in serving systems to
achieve high resource utilization, particularly with GPUs,
as it enables parallel processing of multiple inputs while
minimizing the idle time [19, 50]. However, this approach is
less effective in T2V models due to its high computational
demands, as shown in Figure 4. Some studies leverage the
similarities between consecutive steps to reduce the com-
putational requirements, thereby optimizing the denoising
process more efficiently [27, 38, 47]. However, cache reusing
often compromises the quality of generated videos.
On the other way, many parallelism strategies have been
designed to accelerate the inference of Transformer-based
models, including Pipeline Parallelism (PP), Tensor Paral-
lelism (TP), and Sequence Parallelism (SP) [1, 21, 39]. TP is
particularly effective for LLMs due to the large model sizes
and relatively small activation sizes. The communication
overhead introduced by TP is negligible compared to the
latency reduction achieved through the increased memory
bandwidth. LLMs utilize embedded SP by sharding along a
single sequence dimension proposed in Ring-Attention [26].
In contrast, parallelism in diffusion models presents different
challenges. These models are generally smaller than LLMs
but often encounter bottlenecks due to large activation sizes,
primarily caused by spatial dimensions, especially when gen-
erating high-resolution outputs. TP is unsuitable for DiT
due to the substantial communication overhead during in-
ference, while PP is ineffective because of the small model
size. SP can benefit DiT in video generation, particularly in
multi-dimensional Transformer-based models. However, the
degree of SP must be carefully determined before deployment
to achieve optimal performance and resource utilization.

3


0
200
400
600
Sample Times

0

50

100

GPU Utilization(%)

(a) GPU Utilization

0
200
400
600
Sample Times

13.00

13.25

13.50

13.75

Memory (GB)

(b) Memory Size
DiT
VAE

Figure 4. GPU Utilization of DiT and VAE (resolution: 144p).
3
An Empirical Study
We perform an in-depth investigation towards a represen-
tative T2V model, OpenSora [25]. We discover some inter-
esting findings, which can shed light on the design of new
optimization approaches for T2V models.

3.1
Impact of Batch Size

We first measure the impact of the batch size on the serving
inference. Figure 3 shows the characterization results with
the batch size ranging from 1 to 8 with the degree of sequence
parallelism set to one. We observe the following pattern: in
DiT, the throughput scales linearly with the batch size at
smaller resolutions but plateaus as batch size increases. For
larger resolutions, its remains nearly unchanged. In contrast,
VAE maintains consistent system throughput across different
resolutions and batch sizes.
We further evaluate the GPU utilization at runtime. As
shown in Figure 4, both DiT and VAE saturate GPU resources
with a batch size of 1, which is consistent with the behavior
of attention and convolution operations. Batching can not
improve the throughput of the T2V system but instead in-
creasing the latency of requests within a single batch. Based
on these observations, we have the following insight:

Insight 1: The optimal scheduling policy in T2V is to
process requests sequentially, one at each time, because
the GPU computational capacity is always limited.

3.2
Impact of DoP
Online video generation is a time-consuming process, and
typically involves model deployment with multi-GPU paral-
lelism. This approach distributes the computational work-
load to reduce the generation latency and improve the user
experience. We evaluate the impact of the DoP (i.e., number
of GPUs) on the T2V system. We set the DoP from 1 to 8 in
our generation tests.
As shown in Figure 5, requests with larger resolutions
demonstrate distinct characteristics across two phases under
varying degrees of parallelism: in DiT, higher-resolution re-
quests distribute the computational load across more GPUs
as the DoP increases, resulting in an initial linear reduction
in execution time, followed by a slower rate of decrease.

1
2
4
8
Parallel Size

0

5

10

15

20

Latency (s)

(a) DiT Charac.

1
2
4
8
Parallel Size

0.00

0.25

0.50

0.75

1.00

Latency (s)

(b) VAE Charac.

144p
240p
360p

Figure 5. Latency of DiT and VAE under various DoPs.

However, VAE maintains stable execution time regardless
of GPU parallelization. As the DoP increases, the latency
of VAE accounts for a larger proportion of the total serv-
ing time, leading to greater resource inefficiency with more
GPUs. For example, as shown in Figure 5, the VAE execu-
tion time accounts for 14.3% of the total inference time with
four GPUs, compared to 4.5% with a single GPU under the
request with 360p resolution. We find that the key issue lies
in all GPUs within the VAE processing the same input tensor
from DiT, despite utilizing the same number of GPUs as DiT
during generation. Therefore, with DoP=4, VAE wastes the
computational time of three GPUs. This redundancy high-
lights inefficiencies in the current homogeneous-deployment
manner. Furthermore, VAE cannot achieve acceleration, even
when using parallelized versions such as DistVAE [8].
According to the above discussion, the monolithic T2V
serving performs DiT and VAE sequentially, ignoring the
inconsistent hardware resource allocation between phases,
resulting in redundant computation during inference. This
gives us the following design insight:

Insight 2: We need to decouple DiT and VAE from model
deployment and dynamically allocate resources to each
phase for improved efficiency.

In Appendix, Figure 17 further demonstrates the effects
of batch size and DoP on the T2V models are orthogonal.

3.3
Impact of Video Resolution
Most T2V serving systems allow users to define the resolu-
tion through a configurable parameter, as seen in Kling [18],
Video Ocean [31], and Runway [37]. Therefore, T2V serving
systems must handle workloads consisting of requests with
varying resolutions. The latency of a request increases with
higher resolutions, and DiT acts as a significant contributing
factor. To handle the specific resolution efficiently, a optimal
number of GPUs should be allocated to ensure acceptable
latency for users and maximize resource utilization.
We evaluate the impact of varying resolutions, ranging
from 144p to 360p, on the DiT performance across paral-
lel sizes from 1 to 8. The results are shown in Figure 5.
During the DiT phase, we observe two key patterns: (1) for
lower-resolution requests, the performance remains stable

4


time

1

2

R2

R2

3

4

R2

R1

time

1

2

R2

R1

R2

3

4

R2

GPU
GPU

Scale Up

(b) Step-Sched of DiT
(a) Req-Sched of DiT

R1
R1

R1-240p
R2-360p
R1-240p
R2-360p

Figure 6. The idle GPU under the fixed deployment.

across varying DoP configurations, with slight degradation
at higher DoP; (2) for higher-resolution requests, the perfor-
mance improves significantly as DoP increases. For instance,
a request with 144p resolution performs better on a single
GPU than on multiple GPUs. Similarly, deploying a 240p res-
olution request on two GPUs can halve the latency compared
to one, but it cannot get enough earnings for more than two
GPUs because of Amdahl’s law. As shown in Figure 8, when
doubling the DoP, the reduction ratio in DiT execution time
is different under different initial DoP values. It highlights
that performance gains do not scale linearly with the GPU
count. This inspires us as follows:

Insight 3: Larger DoP does not always lead to better
performance. It is necessary to determine an optimal
configuration, enabling efficient request scheduling to
maximize the performance gain for each resolution.

3.4
Impact of Static Deployment

In existing T2V serving systems, model deployment remains
static on a fixed amount of resources throughout the entire
process, and each request runs continuously until completion.
This is inefficient and leads to significant computational
waste due to the mismatch between resource allocation and
optimal requirements. For example, Figure 6 illustrates the
idle resource time in a static scenario with four GPUs serving
two requests with resolutions of 240p and 360p. When a
240p request is followed by a 360p request, the scheduler
allocates two GPUs to the first request, leaving another two
idle. This does not satisfy the optimal DoP requirement for
the subsequent request. The scheduler then faces two choices:
(1) waiting for the 240p request to finish and release its GPU,
leading to wasted idle resources, (2) allocating the two idle
GPUs to the 360p request, causing it to execute suboptimally
with insufficient resources until completion, as it cannot
utilize the additional two GPUs released by the 240p request
due to the static allocation at initialization.
According to the above analysis, static model deployment
and coarse-grained request scheduling lead to inefficient re-
source utilization and substantial wastage. This observation
provides the following design motivation:

Global
Scheduler

Engine
Controller

GPU IDs: (1, 3, 8)

Elastic Units

GPU

GPU

GPU

Control Message

Centralized Control Plane

RIB

res. op = 1

Resource Manager

Offline Profiler

Figure 7. Architecture overview of DDiT.

Insight 4: It is necessary to design a fine-grained, step-
aware scheduling mechanism and flexible model manage-
ment for dynamic resource scaling. These enable elastic
parallelism deployment for DiT, dynamically adjusting
based on available resources during request execution.

4
DDiT Design

Inspired by the insights from our empirical study, we design
DDiT, a novel T2V serving system that can efficiently allocate
GPU resources at each phase, and flexibly scale the resources
for running requests at a fine-grained step level.

4.1
Overview
The design of DDiT encompasses the following ideas. First,
we decouple the DiT and VAE phases for deployment and
execution independently. Second, we decouple the model
weights loading and the establishment of communication
groups for parallelism in itialization. The model weights are
loaded into each GPU instance, and communication groups
are established on demand, eliminating the need to prede-
fine the number of GPUs. Third, we determine the optimal
DoP for various resolutions in the offline manner, which
are used to guide the online resource allocation. Fourth, we
implement a greedy resource allocation algorithm with a
step-wise scheduling strategy to minimize the idle GPU time
and efficiently change DoP for handling requests. Figure
7 shows the architectural overview of DDiT, consisting of
three main components: Offline Profiler, Centralized Control
Plane, and Engine Units.
Offline Profiler. This module automatically analyzes the
characteristics across various request resolutions and applies
the predefined policies to determine the optimal DoP. It is
executed only once for each unique resolution. The pair
of resolution and optimal DoP value is stored in a request
information database (RIB). The resolution must be profiled
first if its portrayal is not available.

5


Centralized Control Plane. It consists of a global sched-
uler, a cluster monitor, and a resource allocator. The global
scheduler distributes requests to DiT instances and retrieves
outputs from VAE instances. The cluster monitor tracks the
GPU status and collects request statistics from Engine Units.
The resource allocator manages GPU allocation, treating
each GPU as a fundamental unit that contains a full replica
of the model weights, enabling a heterogeneous model paral-
lelism strategy. The global manager dynamically determines
the DoP for requests based on available resources and their
optimal DoP before each step of the DiT and VAE phases.
Engine Units. The Engine Units consist of an engine con-
troller and a model engine. The engine controller receives
control messages from the global scheduler, manages con-
nections between instances using GPU IDs, and triggers the
model engine to execute step by step. It adjusts the commu-
nication groups based on updated DoP, broadcasting latent
representation tensors to newly assigned instances. It also
periodically reports the request phase, number of steps, and
resource usage to the cluster monitor to aid GPU allocation.
Below we elaborate two core approaches in DDiT.

4.2
Global Scheduler

DDiT features a scheduler designed for efficient request dis-
patching to the DiT phase in an online serving system. Tra-
ditional scheduling focuses only on the instance load, which
is unsuitable for T2V serving as it overlooks the unique char-
acteristics of T2V serving. We propose a new scheduling
algorithm that accounts for the computational requirements
of requests in DiT, enabling efficient handling of varying res-
olutions. To maximize GPU utilization, we design a step-wise
mechanism for the DiT engine to avoid waiting time.

4.2.1
Problem Formulation. The objective of the global
scheduler is to minimize the overall processing time of pend-
ing requests given their volume and available resource capac-
ity, which is also equivalent to minimizing the cumulative
resource occupancy time, defined as:

𝑂=
∑︁

𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑗∈𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟
𝑜𝑐𝑐𝑢𝑝𝑖𝑒𝑑_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒(𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑗)
(2)

In addition to the scheduling method, the characteristics
of requests, such as resolution distribution, also play a key
role in influencing this metric, as analyzed in Section 3.3.
We first define the resolution distribution of a request batch
comprising 𝑁resolution types, with each type having a
corresponding proportion 𝑥𝑖, where 1 ≤𝑖≤𝑁. Then we
present a scheduling algorithm below that derives the the-
oretical minimum of this metric under the fixed resolution
distribution and request volume constraints.

4.2.2
Theoretical Optimal Scheduling Algorithm. The
optimal scheduling algorithm can theoretically be achieved
if the resolution distribution is already known. Under this
assumption, we use dynamic programming to determine the

optimal resource allocation for requests of each resolution
type. We present the details of scheduling in Algorithm 1.

Algorithm 1 Theoretical Optimal Scheduling Algorithm

1: 𝑚, 𝑛←numbers of instances and GPUs per instance, 𝑀= 𝑚× 𝑛
2: 𝑁←numbers of resolution types
3: 𝑑𝑝[𝑀+ 1][𝑁+ 1] ←[[0, 0, ...], [0, 0, ...], ...]
4: 𝑑𝑝[𝑖][0]1≤𝑖≤𝑀= 0, 𝑑𝑝[0][𝑗]1≤𝑗≤𝑁= ∞
5: 𝑥1 : 𝑥2 : 𝑥3...𝑥𝑁←the proportion of each resolution type
6: 𝑝𝑠= {1, 2, 4, ...} ←𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠_𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑝_𝑆𝑖𝑧𝑒_𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡
7: 𝐺[𝑚][𝑛] ←𝐴𝑙𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡
8: for 𝑖= 1 to 𝑀do
9:
for 𝑗= 1 to 𝑁do
10:
FIND_OPTIMAL_TIME(𝐺, 𝑑𝑝, 𝑝𝑠, 𝑖, 𝑗, 𝑥𝑗)

11: Return 𝑑𝑝[𝑀][𝑁]
12: function FIND_OPTIMAL_TIME(𝐺, 𝑑𝑝, 𝑝𝑠, 𝑖, 𝑗, 𝑥𝑗)
13:
for 𝑘= 1 to 𝑖do
14:
for 𝑝in 𝑝𝑠do
15:
𝛼←BandwidthAwarePartition(
𝐺(𝑛𝑒𝑡.)
(𝑖−𝑘+1)𝑡ℎ∼𝑖𝑡ℎ
,𝑘, 𝑝)

16:
if 𝛼== 0 then
17:
Continue
18:
𝑑←EstimateExecutionTime(𝑝, 𝑗)
19:
𝑑𝑝[𝑖][𝑗] = min(𝑑𝑝[𝑖−𝑘][𝑗−1] +𝑘× Occupy(𝑥𝑗,𝑑, 𝛼))

The objective is to find the minimum cumulative resource
occupancy time of assigning total 𝑀GPUs to total 𝑁resolu-
tion types of requests. We assume that there are 𝑚instances
and each instance contains 𝑛GPUs (line 1). We adopt dy-
namic programming, where 𝑑𝑝[𝑖][𝑗] is used to represent
the optimal result of assigning the first 𝑖GPUs to the first
𝑗request types (line 3) and initializing it (line 4). Since the
request execution time varies across different DoP values,
we also enumerate all the values (line 6) and use 𝐺[𝑖][𝑗]
to represent whether the 𝑗-th GPU in the 𝑖-th instance is
allocated or not (line 7).
Subsequently, the algorithm calculates each 𝑑𝑝[𝑖][𝑗] us-
ing a double loop (line 8 ∼10). The function starts at line
12 is the core logic for calculating 𝑑𝑝[𝑖][𝑗]. It enumerates
the number of GPUs and the DoP used to execute the 𝑗-th
request type (line 13 ∼14). Line 15 calculates the number
of model instances (𝛼) based on network bandwidth condi-
tions between the (𝑖−𝑘+ 1)-th ∼𝑖-th GPUs and DoP (𝑝).
Since SP requires high-speed inter-GPU connectivity, the
allocation strategy varies depending on the cluster configu-
ration. For example, considering a cluster of two machines,
each is equipped with eight GPUs, where NVLink enables
high-speed bandwidth within machines but only low-speed
bandwidth exists between machines. If the first machine
and the first GPU of the second machine are already occu-
pied, allocating an additional seven GPUs yields different
outcomes based on the DoP. With the DoP of one, seven
model instances can be created if each GPU hosts the full
model weights. However, if the DoP is four, only one model
instance can be created.

6


Since the execution time of the T2V model is deterministic
once parameters such as denoising steps, DoP (𝑝) and reso-
lution (𝑗) are fixed, we pre-profile across various scenarios
and leverage these data to estimate the execution time (𝑑)
for a single request with the given resolution type 𝑗in line
18. Line 19 calculates 𝑑𝑝[𝑖][𝑗] by the minimal sum of the
two parts: (1) the cumulative resource occupancy time for
assigning the first (𝑖−𝑘) GPUs to the first (𝑗−1) request
types, and (2) the cumulative resource occupancy time for
assigning the (𝑖−𝑘+ 1)-th ∼𝑖-th GPUs to the 𝑗𝑡ℎrequest
type.
The first part is already calculated by dynamic program-
ming, and the second part can be modeled as a batch model
or a queue model, depending on the assumptions:
• Batch Model: If there are already 𝑆requests pending
in the system before it starts processing and no more
new requests will arrive. Given that the number of model
instances 𝛼≥1 and the execution time 𝑑is fixed, we can
model the scenario using a batch model. Assuming that
the request is evenly distributed across 𝛼model instances,
the number of type 𝑗requests executed by each instance
is ⌈𝑆·𝑥𝑗

𝛼⌉. The execution time of request type 𝑗is 𝑑, so
the average resource occupancy time for a single GPU is
computed as follows:

𝑊𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ(𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒𝑗) = ⌈𝑆· 𝑥𝑗

𝛼
⌉𝑑
(3)

Therefore, the cumulative resource occupancy time for
assigning the (𝑖−𝑘+ 1)-th ∼𝑖-th GPUs to the 𝑗𝑡ℎrequest
type is obtained by 𝑘× e.q. 3.
• Queue Model: This model characterizes a dynamic equi-
librium scenario where the system maintains a constant
pending requests count 𝑆, balancing continuous request
arrivals with concurrent processing throughput. Due to
space constraints, the detailed specification of the queue
model is provided in Appendix A.
In practical scenarios, the resolution distribution is not
known in advance. Previous works[35, 48] attempt to predict
the request loads and their characteristics based on historical
data patterns. However, these works exhibit limited robust-
ness to high load fluctuations, and the runtime overhead
induced by frequent resource re-allocations in response to
load variations remains a critical under-addressed challenge.
Therefore, to reduce the cumulative resource occupancy time
in the real world, we introduce the greedy scheduling algo-
rithm of DDiT.

4.2.3
Greedy Scheduling in DDiT. DDiT schedules each
request sequentially in a First-Come-First-Serve (FCFS) man-
ner, since the batching technique is not suitable for T2V
models as shown in Section 3.1. More specific, it employs a
greedy approach to set the DoP of each request before the
DiT phase and automatically choose whether to promote the

DoP at a step granularity during the DiT phase, in order to
minimize the cumulative resource occupancy time as well.
According to Amdahl’s Law [10], the optimal DoP for
any resolution constant at one if we aim to minimize the
cumulative resource occupancy time at a single request level.
However, this configuration of parallelism severely degrades
the performance for high-resolution requests and blocks
subsequent ones. Therefore, we need to reassess the optimal
DoP for each resolution, balancing the resource efficiency
and performance.
As the DoP of the request increases, the proportional of
time reduction in DiT phase afforded by each doubling of
DoP is variable. In Figure 8, we present the change rate of
the per-step DiT execution time between two adjacent DoP
across various resolutions. We define this metric below:

𝑧= 1 −𝐷𝑖𝑇𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒(𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑒𝑙_𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒= 𝑖, 𝑟)

𝐷𝑖𝑇𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒(𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑒𝑙_𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒= 𝑖/2, 𝑟)
(4)

The 𝑟means the resolution (144p, 240p, 360p) of the request
and𝑖= 2, 4, 8 in Figure 8. For each request type we denote the
value of 𝑖as 𝐵when the corresponding 𝑧is largest. Therefore,
for requests with resolutions of 144p, 240p, and 360p, their
corresponding 𝐵values are 1, 2, and 4, respectively. Notably,
we only treat 𝐵of each request type as its optimal DoP for
the DiT phase, while the optimal DoP is much smaller during
the VAE phase, as analyzed in Section 3.2. Next, we introduce
how DDiT specifically applies the greedy strategy and the 𝐵
values to schedule requests,
The first greedy scheduling occurs when a request ar-
rives in DDiT and attempts to acquire 𝐵GPUs, but only 𝐺
free GPUs are available (𝐺< 𝐵). In this case, DDiT greed-
ily assigns these 𝐺GPUs to the request, allowing it to start
DiT execution. The second greedy scheduling happens dur-
ing the DiT phase if newly released GPUs become available
from completed requests. If so, DDiT greedily assigns these
GPUs to the request, allowing it to reach 𝐵GPUs. This reas-
signment occurs only if the request has the highest priority
among those requests whose current DoP is lower than its
corresponding 𝐵. The definition of the priority lies below:

𝑟𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑣.+ = (𝑟𝑐𝑢𝑟_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝−𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑡_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝)×(𝑟𝑐𝑢𝑟_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒−𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒)
(5)
It represents the theoretical additional DiT execution time
that a request experiences from its most recent GPU assign-
ment event until the current scheduling event, due to an
insufficient number of GPUs (i.e., fewer than 𝐵). We refer
to this measure as the starvation time, and the longer the
starvation time, the higher the scheduling priority. More
details are presented in Appendix B due to space constraint.

4.3
Efficient Decoupling

DDiT introduce two decouple mechanisms: inter-phase and
intra-phase designs in the T2V system. The inter-phase de-
coupling is necessary because the coupling module overlooks

7


144p
240p
360p
Resolutions

0.2

0.0

0.2

0.4

0.5

Latency Change Rate

0.00
0.00
0.00

-0.14

0.45
0.46

-0.07

0.20

0.47

-0.02

-0.07

0.34

SP=1
SP=2
SP=4
SP=8

Figure 8. Per-step DiT time change rate between adjacent
parallel sizes.

the different resource requirements of components like the
DiT and VAE modules. DDiT decouples DiT and VAE into
two independent components, enabling them to execute se-
quentially within the same instance at any time, as long as
the VAE phase can utilize the latent representations tensor
generated by the DiT phase.
To optimize resource usage, DDiT employs an engine con-
troller to scale down the DoP of the Engine Unit after com-
pleting the DiT phase. Specifically, for an Engine Unit 𝑅with
a DoP 𝑑, the elastic scale-down mechanism adjusts it to a
new parallel group ´𝑅with a reduced DoP ´𝑑, determined by
the resource requirements of the VAE model, where ´𝑑< 𝑑
in DDiT. The mechanism designates the GPUs with the low-
est IDs as master units within Engine Unit 𝑅, which remain
in ´𝑅during the VAE phase. The latent representations ten-
sors are retained in these master units after the DiT phase
completion.
Moreover, the scale-down mechanism involves two over-
lapping Engine Units, each with different GPUs. They should
use separate communication handlers to ensure message con-
sistency. However, the coupling model necessitates reloading
the model weights and rebuilding the communication do-
main. To address this, DDiT separates model weights loading
and parallelism communication construction in model serv-
ing. Model weights are loaded initially on all GPUs, while
parallelism communication domain construction is deferred
until the beginning of the DiT or VAE phase.
DDiT proposes the intra-phase decoupling because the
DoP configuration for the DiT phase is predefined and can-
not change across multiple denoising steps. DDiT employs
an engine controller to track each step of the engine units
through inter-process messaging. It is aware of the DoP con-
figuration at each step and receives updated DoP messages
from the global scheduler, enabling flexible DoP reconfigu-
ration, as discussed in §4.2.3.
Figure 9 illustrates the execution lifecycle of a request in
the DDiT, emphasizing resource scaling and step scheduling.
We still assume that when the request 𝑏arrives, the available
resource 𝐺in DDiT does not meet its optimal requirement

…

GPU
GPU

GPU
GPU
Data Plane

GPU

GPU

DiT-Step1

① Control
Message

DiT-Step2

 Check

DiT-StepM

DiT-StepN

GPU

Controller Plane

VAE

③ Sacling

H.Req Pri

Scheduler

W.Req

R.Req

⑤/⑦ Release

④ DiT-Finish
⑥ VAE-Finish

Engine Controller

Control

Plane

…

sched. step

conn. table

Step Line

② Init

Figure 9. The lifecycle of a request in DDiT.

𝐵𝑏:𝑟𝑒𝑠., as the request 𝑎is still running. The scheduler re-
trieves 𝑏from the waiting queue and attempts to allocate
𝐵𝑏:𝑟𝑒𝑠. GPUs through the resource manager, but only 𝐺is
allocated. Request 𝑏is labeled as "hungry" and forwarded
to the engine controller with a control message containing
GPU IDs and request metadata.
The engine controller searches the torch distribute han-
dler using the hash value of the GPU IDs in the connection
table. If no handler exists, it first triggers the workers (a
worker represents a process executing T2V generation on
a GPU) associated with the 𝐺GPUs to establish the con-
nection for parallelism and execute the DiT model by using
the request metadata. When 𝑎completes, its resources 𝐺𝑎
are released. The scheduler can reassign these resources to
𝑏, and send an updated message with the new GPU IDs to
the engine controller. The engine controller employs a back-
ground thread to monitor notifications. Upon detecting the
available resources, it promotes the parallelism group to in-
clude the newly assigned GPUs and uses NCCL to transmit
intermediate tensors to the new GPU workers. This scaling
mechanism continues until DiT completes or the optimal
number of GPUs is reached.
The engine controller communicates with workers at each
step. Once the DiT phase finishes, it promptly receives the
completion information. It stores the handler, releases par-
tial GPUs, and notifies the scheduler. It also rebuilds the
parallelism group for the VAE module. The remaining GPUs
continue to execute until the the request is completed.
Discussion: We now discuss two auxiliary components
in the T2V system: the text encoder and the tensor-to-video
converter. (1) The text encoder currently requires negligi-
ble processing time, but it can be deployed on dedicated
hardware for longer texts or multiple inputs. We leave this
optimization for future work. (2) The tensor-to-video con-
verter runs synchronously on the CPU in VideoSys [43],
preventing GPU task blockage on the same machine. How-
ever, since it can be designed as an asynchronous process,
we exclude this component from the experiment to ensure
that all optimizations focus on GPU-executed tasks.

8


Name
Model
Param
Text Encoder
T5v1.1-xxl
4.8B
Diffusion Model
STDiT3
1.1B
Var. Encoder
OpenSoraVAE
384M
Table 1. Detailed module parameters in our T2V system.

5
Implementation
We implement the Offline Profiler and DDiT ’s Centralized
Control Plane from scratch in Python. We adopt DiT and VAE
instances based on Videosys [54] and provide a FastAPI front
end of DDiT for user convenience, allowing users to submit
requests with customizable parameters such as resolution
and aspect ratio. Each GPU runs a dedicated Python process
to handle a portion of the sequence parallelism. We use RPC
[41] for the communication in the control plane of DDiT,
while NCCL [30] is used in the data plane between Engine
Units.
The Offline Profiler automatically conducts tests for spe-
cific resolutions with the increasing parallelism size to de-
termine the optimal GPU count, storing the profiled data
in MySQL [7]. The Centralized Control Plane comprises a
resource allocator and a global scheduler. The resource al-
locator employs multi-level lists to organize GPUs into a
buddy system, which manages GPU pairs for various DoP
by automatically merging and splitting them as needed. The
global scheduler retrieves profiling data from MySQL [7] dur-
ing initialization, records the status of GPUs using a bitmap,
manages communicator handlers in a hash table, and mon-
itors the execution phase of requests. It uses RPC [41] to
communicate with the elastic units to notify the scheduling
information. The master unit employs NCCL [30] to broad-
cast the DiT tensors to news, dynamically scaling sequence
parallelism as needed. A DiT or VAE instance is a fundamen-
tal deployable unit, which has three coroutines in a Python
process that runs the local scheduler, the reporter, and the
main engine.

6
Evaluation

We evaluate DDiT using multiple real-world solutions across
different workloads, quantify the effectiveness of its compo-
nents, and further analyze its scalability against the theoret-
ical optimal scheduling algorithm.

6.1
Setup
Model. We adopt the T5v1.1-xxl Encoder [9] as the text
encoder, STDiT-v3 [13] as the DiT model, and OpenSoraVAE
[14] as the VAE model in our evaluation. These models are
widely used in practice, with their parameters are detailed
in Table 1.
Testbed. We evaluate DDiT on a single server equipped with
an Intel Xeon Gold 5218R CPU (192 cores and 2 TB of mem-
ory) and eight NVIDIA H800 GPUs (each with 80 GB of HBM),

interconnected via a 400 GB/s NVLink [46]. The server runs
Ubuntu 20.04, CUDA 12.1, Python 3.8, and PyTorch 2.2.1. For
scalability experiments, we emulate DDiT and the baselines
on a GPU cluster of eight servers, interconnected via 200
Gbps RDMA links.
Workloads. We evaluate the effectiveness of the greedy
scheduling algorithm and resource allocation strategies in
DDiT for T2V inference by varying the resolution while keep-
ing the number of frames constant at 51 and denoising steps
set to 30 as discussed in Section 1. Since no open-source
real-world T2V workload trace was available, we selected
144p, 240p and 360p to represent low, medium and high
resolutions, respectively, and adjusted their proportions to
emulate a realistic workload. The requests arrive randomly
as 𝐴(𝑡) ∼𝜆𝑒−𝜆, where the arrival rate (𝜆) ranges from 0.25
and 1 to simulate varying load intensities. The burst in Figure
10 represents requests arriving simultaneously, simulating
an extreme load.
Baselines. We use VideoSys [43] as our baseline, the most
popular open-source T2V system. We enhance it to support
the following four real-world scenarios and the theoretical
optimum scheduling algorithm in §4.2.2.
• Static DoP(SDoP): The DoP for the model instance is
pre-configured and remains fixed to serve requests with
varying patterns in practical environments, ensuring ease
of deployment. We set the DoP range from one to four.
• Static Partition & Cluster Isolation(SPCI): T2V infer-
ence services involve multiple types of requests, with their
ratios varying dynamically. To effectively serve specific
request types, GPU resources are typically partitioned
into clusters based on the historical patterns of request
types, each with a fixed DoP. In the experiment, we allo-
cate GPUs into three clusters based on predefined ratios
of request types to optimize performance, assuming prior
knowledge of the request distribution.
• Dynamic Partition & Cluster Isolation(DPCI): The
dynamic partition prioritizes service quality compared
to the static partition, as each request type has different
computational demands. Specifically, we configure the
DoP of clusters corresponding to each request type, as
introduced in 4.2.3. In the experiment, we allocate an equal
number of engine units for the three request types in their
respective clusters, limited by the available hardware.
• Dynamic Partition(DP): It removes the strict routing
constraint to enhance the flexibility of dynamic partition-
ing in handling workload distribution shifts. For example,
a 𝐵= 4 request facing resource saturation in its native
cluster can be adaptively downgraded to a 𝐵= 2 clus-
ter, minimizing resource idle time and ensuring service
continuity.
The 𝐵values we used in DDiT are introduced in Section
4.2.3 and the DoP for the VAE phase is set to one according
to Figure 5.

9


0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst

0.25

0.50

0.75

1.00

Norm. P99 Latency

0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst
0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst
0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst

0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst
Arrival Rate

0.25

0.50

0.75

1.00

Norm. Avg. Latency

Low: Medium: High = 1: 1: 1

0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst
Arrival Rate

Low: Medium: High = 6: 1: 3

0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst
Arrival Rate

Low: Medium: High = 4: 4: 2

0.25
0.5
0.75
1.0
Burst
Arrival Rate

Low: Medium: High = 2: 2: 6

DDiT
Static DoP = 1

Static DoP = 2
Static DoP = 4

Static Part. & Cluster Isol.
Dynamic Part. & Cluster Isol.

Dynamic Part.

Figure 10. Single-node end-to-end performance (Lower latency indicates better performance). Part is an abbreviation for
Partition, and Isol is isolation for short.

Metrics. We focus on the average latency, the p99 latency,
and the monetary cost of a T2V inference system. For each ar-
rival rate, we compare different systems by normalizing their
metrics. For example, at a given arrival rate, the normalized
p99 latency for each system is calculated through dividing
its p99 latency by the maximum p99 latency observed among
all systems. The same normalization applies to the average
latency and the monetary cost as well. Moreover, we treat
the monetray cost numerically the same as the cumulative
resource occupancy time in the T2V system, as described in
Algorithm 1, under the assumption of a constant charge of
one unit per second per GPU.

6.2
End-to-End Performance
Single-Node Performance. We compare DDiT with four
baselines across ten pattern workloads using two key met-
rics. DDiT outperforms all other systems in every scenario.
Results for five groups are shown in Figure 10, while the
remaining results are provided in Appendix C due to space
limitations.
When the arrival rate is low (e.g., 0.25 or 0.5), the lifetimes
of two consecutive requests do not overlap in underutilized
systems, and allocating more GPUs enhances performance.
As a result, the static DoP approach achieves the better per-
formance across all four baselines with different DoP values.
At an arrival rate of 0.25, the optimal static DoP value is 4,
while DDiT further reduces p99 latency by 12.88%. When the
arrival rate increases to 0.5, the optimal DoP value decreases
to 2. DDiT can also achieve a 10.71% reduction in p99 latency.
This improvement is attributed to the DiT-VAE decouple
mechanism, which accelerates resource release and enables
subsequent requests to start execution earlier. The average

latency increases by 9.43% or remains similar to the optimal
static DoP at each arrival rate, as the limited number of GPUs
in a single node constrains the ability of DDiT to promote
DoP values. However, a fixed static DoP is not optimal for all
arrival rates and can not dynamically adjust in online serving.
For example, at an arrival rate of 0.5, DDiT reduces p99 by
up to 36.6% and average latency by up to 44.4% compared to
a static DoP of 4, which is optimal at an arrival rate of 0.25.
For higher arrival rates (eg., 0.75 or 1.0), the optimal static
DoP value remains 2. DDiT reduces p99 latency by up to
19.23% and average latency by up to 29.5% across different
request distributions. As the arrival rate increases, the DiT-
VAE decoupling and demotion launch mechanisms of DDiT
effectively reduce resource contention among consecutive
requests. Additionally, DoP promotion during execution en-
sures that each request maintains a reasonable execution
time. Finally, in the burst scenario, where requests arrive
simultaneously and the system load is extremely high, a
lower DoP enhances system-level concurrency under heavy
load. As a result, setting the static DoP to 1 delivers the best
performance. In this case, DDiT reduces p99 latency by up to
20.7% and average latency by 21.7%.
Both SPCI and DPCI cause resource wastage due to clus-
ter isolation. As shown in Figure 10, this inefficiency can
worsen the performance as the arrival rate increases. Com-
pared with SPCI, DDiT achieves a p99 latency reduction of
approximately 27.6% to 48.6% across arrival rates from 0.25
to burst for different request resolution distributions. For
DPCI, the reduction is around 14.5% to 75.1%. This difference
arises because the DoP within each cluster in the dynamic
partition is set based on the 𝐵value, resulting in fewer model
instances per cluster compared to the static partition. For

10


1: 1: 1
0

20

40

60

80

100

P99 Latency (s)

2: 2: 6
2: 6: 2
6: 2: 2
2: 4: 4
4: 2: 4
4: 4: 2
1: 3: 6
6: 1: 3
3: 6: 1

1: 1: 1
Low: Medium: High

0

10

20

30

40

Avg. Latency (s)

2: 2: 6
2: 6: 2
6: 2: 2
Low: Medium: High

2: 4: 4
4: 2: 4
4: 4: 2
Low: Medium: High

1: 3: 6
6: 1: 3
3: 6: 1
Low: Medium: High

DDiT
Static DoP
Static Part. & Cluster Isol.
Dynamic Part. & Cluster Isol.
Dynamic Part.

Figure 11. Multi-node end-to-end performance.

1: 1: 1

2: 2: 6

2: 6: 2

6: 2: 2

2: 4: 4

4: 2: 4

4: 4: 2

1: 3: 6

6: 1: 3

3: 6: 1

Low: Medium: High

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1.0

Normalized Cost

Theoretical Optimum
DDiT
Static DoP

Static Part. & Cluster Isol.
Dynamic Part. & Cluster Isol.
Dynamic Part.

Figure 12. Multi-node monetary cost (Lower Cost indicates
a better solution).

DP, cross-cluster resource sharing completely compensates
for the shortage of model instances. At lower arrival rates
(0.25 and 0.5), DDiT achieves a 4.9% reduction in p99 latency.
This improvement increases to 22%–24% when the arrival
rate reaches 1.0 or under burst conditions. The impact of
DDiT on average latency follows the same trend as its effect
on p99 latency compared to these two baselines.
Multi-Node Performance. We evaluate the scalability of
DDiT and the baselines in an emulated 8-node, 64-GPU clus-
ter. Our single-node experiments reveal that DDiT becomes
increasingly effective as the system load increases. Therefore,
in our multi-node experiments, we focus on burst scenarios
and use the monetary cost metric as described in §6.1.
In Figure 11, we first present the average and p99 laten-
cies with the static DoP fixed at 4. DDiT achieves at least a
30.4% reduction in p99 latency and 30% in average latency
across four baselines. We observe that the SPCI method per-
forms the worst, while the DPCI approach shows a slight

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

Norm. P99 Lat.

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

2: 6: 2

4: 4: 2

6: 1: 3

1: 1: 1

L: M: H (Burst)

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

Norm. Avg. Lat.

2: 6: 2

4: 4: 2

6: 1: 3

1: 1: 1

L: M: H (Arrival Rate = 0.5)

0.90

0.95

1.00

1.05

DiT-VAE-Decouple & Static DoP
Static DoP

Figure 13. Breakdown of DiT-VAE Decoupling Performance,
including normalized P99 and Average Latency across Differ-
ent Resolution Proportions (Lower Latency indicates Better
Performance)

improvement. This improvement is due to dynamic partition-
ing, which sets the DoP of each cluster based on the 𝐵value,
increasing concurrency for low-resolution requests. How-
ever, both SPCI and DPCI lead to resource wastage due to
isolated clusters dedicated to different request types. Among
the two methods without cluster isolation, DP demonstrates
superior overall performance due to the suitable parallelism
from DoP values.
Furthermore, we compare the monetary cost of DDiT with
the four baselines across different request distributions. As
shown in Figure 12, DDiT reduces cost by up to 30.4% relative
to four baselines, using only 1.39× the theoretical optimum,
whereas the best-performing baseline reaches 2.08× the op-
timum.

11


0.90

0.95

1.00

Norm. P99 Lat.

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

2: 2: 6

2: 4: 4

1: 3: 6

1: 1: 1

L: M: H (Burst)

0.90

0.95

1.00

Norm. Avg. Lat.

2: 2: 6

2: 4: 4

1: 3: 6

1: 1: 1

L: M: H (Arrival Rate = 0.5)

0.80

0.85

0.90

0.95

1.00

Enable DoP Promotion
Disable DoP Promotion

Figure 14. Breakdown DoP promotion.

6.3
Breakdown

Effectiveness of DiT-VAE-Decouple. We conduct an abla-
tion study to evaluate the effectiveness of decoupling DiT-
VAE by integrating this mechanism into static DoP. We set
the DoP value to two on a single node in the experiment.
As shown in Figure 13, decoupling DiT-VAE reduces the
p99 latency by up to 20%, while maintaining a similar av-
erage latency under an arrival rate of 0.5. We find that it
can be attributed to the GPU release mechanism, where an
odd number of GPUs are released after the DiT phase, while
subsequent requests require an even number of GPUs in
all scenarios except for one GPU. Under burst conditions,
it improves the p99 latency by up to 26.1% and the average
latency by up to 23.2% . This results in greater improvements
under higher system loads, consistent with the end-to-end
experiments.
DoP Promotion. To evaluate the effectiveness of DoP pro-
motion in DDiT, we conduct an experiment by enabling and
disabling it. As shown in Figure 14, DoP promotion improves
the p99 latency by up to 35.2% and the average latency by
up to 13.5%. However, it has minimal effect on accelerating
requests under burst workload. We find that DoP promo-
tion extends the waiting time for subsequent requests in an
overutilized system, negating the benefits of acceleration. In
contrast, it effectively leverages newly released resources in
an underutilized system.
Transfer & Scale up Overhead. We evaluate the overhead
of transferring and scaling up from DoP promotion under
different DoP values and request resolutions. As shown in
Figure 15, it introduces less than 1 millisecond of delay. Com-
pared to the several seconds to tens of seconds required for
DiT execution, these overheads are negligible.

7
Related Work

Efficient Transformer Serving. Existing transformer serv-
ing systems utilize efficient GPU operators for attention
mechanisms, such as Flash Attention [6] and Flash-Decoding

240p
360p
240p
360p

Transfer
Scale

0

0.1

0.2

0.3

Time (ms)

1->2
1->4
1->8

Figure 15. Transfer & scale up time overhead.

[12], which are orthogonal to our work and have been inte-
grated into DDiT. More recently, some works [19, 50] intro-
duced batching techniques to enhance the system through-
put. However, batching is incompatible with T2V generation
due to its high computational demands.
Sequence Parallelism. SP is a specialized technique for
distributing long sequences and activations across multiple
devices, initially proposed to accelerate the training of long-
context LLMs [1, 17]. RingAttention [21] introduces a novel
approach to partitioning the sequence dimension using a
ring-style peer-to-peer (P2P) communication pattern, facili-
tating the transfer of keys and values across GPUs. Striped
Attention [3] enhances this by optimizing token distribution
to achieve balanced attention computation. DSP [53] further
advances the field by proposing an adaptive sequence paral-
lelism abstraction for multi-dimensional transformers, dy-
namically switching the parallel dimension among sequences
based on the computation stage. However, the serving sys-
tem must determine the DoP of sequence parallelism before
model deployment, which poses challenges for handling se-
quences of varying lengths efficiently.
Caching. Caching reuses the intermediate results during
the inference to reduce computation, optimize GPU utiliza-
tion, and lower latency without additional training. Unlike
caching in LLMs, which reuses the same data without sacri-
ficing accuracy, T2V leverages similarity features between
data for efficiency. DeepCache [27] utilizes high-level con-
volutional features in consecutive denoising steps. PAB [54],
FORD [38] and Δ-DiT [5] extend a similar strategy in the
attention mechanism. Some works utilize caching to overlap
data transfer and computation, enabling efficient distributed
inference [20, 45]. However, leveraging the similarity be-
tween outputs of adjacent steps may compromise the quality
of the generated images or videos.

8
Conclusion
To efficiently serve DiT-based T2V models, DDiT proposes
DiT-VAE decoupling, DoP promotion, and a complementary
efficient scheduling algorithm. To further validate the ef-
fectiveness of DDiT, we also propose an optimal scheduling
algorithm under ideal conditions. Our experiments show that

12


DDiT can significantly reduce both p99 and average latencies
for T2V tasks across various workloads.

References

[1] Reza Yazdani Aminabadi, Samyam Rajbhandari, Ammar Ahmad Awan,
Cheng Li, Du Li, Elton Zheng, Olatunji Ruwase, Shaden Smith, Minjia
Zhang, Jeff Rasley, et al. Deepspeed-inference: enabling efficient
inference of transformer models at unprecedented scale. In SC22:
International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking,
Storage and Analysis, 2022.
[2] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendele-
vitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram
Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video
diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127,
2023.
[3] William Brandon, Aniruddha Nrusimha, Kevin Qian, Zachary Ankner,
Tian Jin, Zhiye Song, and Jonathan Ragan-Kelley.
Striped atten-
tion: Faster ring attention for causal transformers. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.09431, 2023.
[4] Junsong Chen, Chongjian Ge, Enze Xie, Yue Wu, Lewei Yao, Xiaozhe
Ren, Zhongdao Wang, Ping Luo, Huchuan Lu, and Zhenguo Li. Pixart-
𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑚𝑎: Weak-to-strong training of diffusion transformer for 4k text-
to-image generation. In European Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 74–91. Springer, 2025.
[5] Pengtao Chen, Mingzhu Shen, Peng Ye, Jianjian Cao, Chongjun Tu,
Christos-Savvas Bouganis, Yiren Zhao, and Tao Chen. 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎-dit: A
training-free acceleration method tailored for diffusion transformers.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01125, 2024.
[6] Tri Dao, Dan Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré.
Flashattention: Fast and memory-efficient exact attention with io-
awareness. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022.
[7] Paul DuBois. MySQL. Addison-Wesley, 2013.
[8] Jiarui Fang, Jinzhe Pan, Xibo Sun, Aoyu Li, and Jiannan Wang. xdit:
an inference engine for diffusion transformers (dits) with massive
parallelism. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01738, 2024.
[9] Google. https://huggingface.co/google/t5-v1_1-xxl.
[10] John L Gustafson. Reevaluating amdahl’s law. Communications of the
ACM, 31(5):532–533, 1988.
[11] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion prob-
abilistic models. Advances in neural information processing systems,
33:6840–6851, 2020.
[12] Ke Hong, Guohao Dai, Jiaming Xu, Qiuli Mao, Xiuhong Li, Jun
Liu, Kangdi Chen, Hanyu Dong, and Yu Wang. Flashdecoding++:
Faster large language model inference on gpus.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.01282, 2023.
[13] Hpcai Tech. https://huggingface.co/hpcai-tech/OpenSora-STDiT-v3.
[14] Hpcai Tech. https://huggingface.co/hpcai-tech/OpenSora-VAE-v1.2.
[15] Cunchen Hu, Heyang Huang, Junhao Hu, Jiang Xu, Xusheng Chen,
Tao Xie, Chenxi Wang, Sa Wang, Yungang Bao, Ninghui Sun, et al.
Memserve: Context caching for disaggregated llm serving with elastic
memory pool. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.17565, 2024.
[16] Cunchen Hu, Heyang Huang, Liangliang Xu, Xusheng Chen, Jiang
Xu, Shuang Chen, Hao Feng, Chenxi Wang, Sa Wang, Yungang Bao,
et al. Inference without interference: Disaggregate llm inference for
mixed downstream workloads. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.11181, 2024.
[17] Vijay Anand Korthikanti, Jared Casper, Sangkug Lym, Lawrence
McAfee, Michael Andersch, Mohammad Shoeybi, and Bryan Catan-
zaro. Reducing activation recomputation in large transformer models.
Proceedings of Machine Learning and Systems, 5:341–353, 2023.
[18] KuaiShou. https://kling.kuaishou.com/.
[19] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin
Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica.
Efficient memory management for large language model serving with

pagedattention. In Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, 2023.
[20] Muyang Li, Tianle Cai, Jiaxin Cao, Qinsheng Zhang, Han Cai, Junjie
Bai, Yangqing Jia, Kai Li, and Song Han. Distrifusion: Distributed
parallel inference for high-resolution diffusion models. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 7183–7193, 2024.
[21] Shenggui Li, Fuzhao Xue, Chaitanya Baranwal, Yongbin Li, and Yang
You. Sequence parallelism: Long sequence training from system per-
spective. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.13120, 2021.
[22] Suyi Li, Lingyun Yang, Xiaoxiao Jiang, Hanfeng Lu, Zhipeng Di, Weiyi
Lu, Jiawei Chen, Kan Liu, Yinghao Yu, Tao Lan, et al. Swiftdiffusion:
Efficient diffusion model serving with add-on modules. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.02031, 2024.
[23] Zewen Li, Fan Liu, Wenjie Yang, Shouheng Peng, and Jun Zhou. A
survey of convolutional neural networks: analysis, applications, and
prospects. IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems,
33(12):6999–7019, 2021.
[24] Zhuohan Li, Eric Wallace, Sheng Shen, Kevin Lin, Kurt Keutzer, Dan
Klein, and Joey Gonzalez. Train big, then compress: Rethinking model
size for efficient training and inference of transformers. In Interna-
tional Conference on machine learning, 2020.
[25] Bin Lin, Yunyang Ge, Xinhua Cheng, Zongjian Li, Bin Zhu, Shaodong
Wang, Xianyi He, Yang Ye, Shenghai Yuan, Liuhan Chen, et al. Open-
sora plan: Open-source large video generation model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.00131, 2024.
[26] Hao Liu, Matei Zaharia, and Pieter Abbeel.
Ring attention with
blockwise transformers for near-infinite context.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.01889, 2023.
[27] Xinyin Ma, Gongfan Fang, and Xinchao Wang. Deepcache: Accelerat-
ing diffusion models for free. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 15762–15772, 2024.
[28] Jianmo Ni, Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Noah Constant, Ji Ma,
Keith B Hall, Daniel Cer, and Yinfei Yang. Sentence-t5: Scalable sen-
tence encoders from pre-trained text-to-text models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2108.08877, 2021.
[29] Thomas Norrie, Nishant Patil, Doe Hyun Yoon, George Kurian, Sheng
Li, James Laudon, Cliff Young, Norman Jouppi, and David Patterson.
The design process for google’s training chips: Tpuv2 and tpuv3. IEEE
Micro, 41(2):56–63, 2021.
[30] NVIDIA. NCCL. https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/nccl/user-
guide/docs/overview.html.
[31] Ocean. https://video-ocean.com/en.
[32] Pratyush Patel, Esha Choukse, Chaojie Zhang, Íñigo Goiri, Aashaka
Shah, Saeed Maleki, and Ricardo Bianchini. Splitwise: Efficient genera-
tive llm inference using phase splitting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.18677,
2023.
[33] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with
transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision, pages 4195–4205, 2023.
[34] Lucas Pinheiro Cinelli, Matheus Araújo Marins, Eduardo Antúnio
Barros da Silva, and Sérgio Lima Netto. Variational autoencoder. In
Variational Methods for Machine Learning with Applications to Deep
Networks, pages 111–149. Springer, 2021.
[35] Olga Poppe, Tayo Amuneke, Dalitso Banda, Aritra De, Ari Green,
Manon Knoertzer, Ehi Nosakhare, Karthik Rajendran, Deepak Shankar-
gouda, Meina Wang, et al. Seagull: An infrastructure for load predic-
tion and optimized resource allocation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.12922,
2020.
[36] Herbert Robbins. A remark on stirling’s formula. The American
mathematical monthly, 62(1):26–29, 1955.
[37] RunWay. https://runwayml.com/.
[38] Pratheba Selvaraju, Tianyu Ding, Tianyi Chen, Ilya Zharkov, and
Luming Liang. Fora: Fast-forward caching in diffusion transformer

13


acceleration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01425, 2024.
[39] Mohammad Shoeybi, Mostofa Patwary, Raul Puri, Patrick LeGresley,
Jared Casper, and Bryan Catanzaro. Megatron-lm: Training multi-
billion parameter language models using model parallelism. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1909.08053, 2019.
[40] John F Shortle, James M Thompson, Donald Gross, and Carl M Harris.
Fundamentals of queueing theory, volume 399. John Wiley & Sons,
2018.
[41] Raj Srinivasan. Rpc: Remote procedure call protocol specification
version 2. Technical report, 1995.
[42] Hongjin Su, Weijia Shi, Jungo Kasai, Yizhong Wang, Yushi Hu, Mari
Ostendorf, Wen-tau Yih, Noah A Smith, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Tao
Yu. One embedder, any task: Instruction-finetuned text embeddings.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.09741, 2022.
[43] VideoSys Team. Videosys: An easy and efficient system for video
generation, 2024.
[44] Henk Tijms.
New and old results for the m/d/c queue.
AEU-
International Journal of Electronics and Communications, 60(2):125–130,
2006.
[45] Jiannan Wang, Jiarui Fang, Aoyu Li, and PengCheng Yang. Pipefu-
sion: Displaced patch pipeline parallelism for inference of diffusion
transformer models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.14430, 2024.
[46] Wikipedia. NVLink. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NVLink.
[47] Felix Wimbauer, Bichen Wu, Edgar Schoenfeld, Xiaoliang Dai, Ji Hou,
Zijian He, Artsiom Sanakoyeu, Peizhao Zhang, Sam Tsai, Jonas Kohler,
et al. Cache me if you can: Accelerating diffusion models through
block caching. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 6211–6220, 2024.
[48] Dingyu Yang, Ziyang Xiao, Dongxiang Zhang, Shuhao Zhang, Jian
Cao, and Gang Chen. Preact: Predictive resource allocation for bursty
workloads in a co-located data center. In Proceedings of the 53rd
International Conference on Parallel Processing, pages 722–731, 2024.
[49] Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu Huang,
Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xiaohan Zhang, Guanyu
Feng, et al. Cogvideox: Text-to-video diffusion models with an expert
transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06072, 2024.
[50] Gyeong-In Yu, Joo Seong Jeong, Geon-Woo Kim, Soojeong Kim,
and Byung-Gon Chun.
Orca: A distributed serving system for
{Transformer-Based} generative models. In 16th USENIX Sympo-
sium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 22), 2022.
[51] Zhihang Yuan, Hanling Zhang, Pu Lu, Xuefei Ning, Linfeng Zhang,
Tianchen Zhao, Shengen Yan, Guohao Dai, and Yu Wang. Ditfas-
tattn: Attention compression for diffusion transformer models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.08552, 2024.
[52] Wentian Zhang, Haozhe Liu, Jinheng Xie, Francesco Faccio,
Mike Zheng Shou, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Cross-attention makes in-
ference cumbersome in text-to-image diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.02747, 2024.
[53] Xuanlei Zhao, Shenggan Cheng, Chang Chen, Zangwei Zheng, Ziming
Liu, Zheming Yang, and Yang You. Dsp: Dynamic sequence parallelism
for multi-dimensional transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.10266,
2024.
[54] Xuanlei Zhao, Xiaolong Jin, Kai Wang, and Yang You. Real-time
video generation with pyramid attention broadcast. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.12588, 2024.
[55] Zangwei Zheng, Xiangyu Peng, Tianji Yang, Chenhui Shen, Shenggui
Li, Hongxin Liu, Yukun Zhou, Tianyi Li, and Yang You. Open-sora:
Democratizing efficient video production for all, March 2024.
[56] Zangwei Zheng, Xiangyu Peng, Tianji Yang, Chenhui Shen, Sheng-
gui Li, Hongxin Liu, Yukun Zhou, Tianyi Li, and Yang You. Open-
sora: Democratizing efficient video production for all. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.20404, 2024.
[57] Yinmin Zhong, Shengyu Liu, Junda Chen, Jianbo Hu, Yibo Zhu, Xu-
anzhe Liu, Xin Jin, and Hao Zhang. Distserve: Disaggregating prefill

and decoding for goodput-optimized large language model serving.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.09670, 2024.

14


A
Queue Model

We clarify the queue model in Algorithm 1 here. If the time
interval between task arrivals follows a Poisson distribution.
Given that the number of model instances (servers) 𝛼≥1,
the arrival rate 𝜆and the execution time (service time) 𝑑
is fixed for task type 𝑗, and assuming the utilization ratio
𝜌< 1, we model the scenario using either the M/D/1 queue
or M/D/c queue [40], as appropriate. The average resource
occupancy time for a single GPU (Occupy(...)), which is
also the average time spent in a queue system, is directly
computed as it follows the M/D/1 (𝛼= 1) queue:

𝑊𝑀/𝐷/1(𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒𝑗) = 1

𝜇+
𝜌
2𝜇(1 −𝜌)
(6)

where 𝜇= 1

𝑑and 𝜌= 𝜆·𝑥𝑗

𝜇. Conversely, computing the aver-
age resource occupancy time for the M/D/c (𝛼> 1) queue is
highly complex. Thus, we approximate it using M/M/c queue
by Eq. 7 from [40, 44], where 𝜇= 1

𝑑, 𝜌= 𝜆·𝑥𝑗

𝛼𝜇, 𝑟= 𝜆·𝑥𝑗

𝜇
and

𝑝0 = (
𝑟𝛼
𝛼!(1−𝜌) + �𝛼−1
𝑠=0
𝑟𝑠

𝑠! )−1. To further reduce time complex-

ity, we employ Stirling’s formula [36], 𝑛! ≈
√

2𝜋𝑛( 𝑛

𝑒)𝑛, to
efficiently compute integer factorials as follows:

𝑊𝑀/𝐷/𝑐(𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒𝑗) ≈𝑊𝑀/𝑀/𝑐(𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒𝑗)

2
=

1
𝜇+ (
𝑟𝛼
𝛼!(𝛼𝜇) (1−𝜌)2 )𝑝0

2
(7)

B
Scheduling Algorithm of DDiT

Algorithm 2 Greedy Scheduling Algorithm of DDiT

1: 𝐺𝑆←𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙_𝑆𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑟, 𝐺𝑆𝐺←𝐹𝑟𝑒𝑒_𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡
2: 𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇←𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑜𝑡𝑒_𝑇𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒, 𝐺𝑆𝑁𝐺←𝑁𝑒𝑤_𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝐸𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑡
3: 𝑅𝑄←𝑅𝑢𝑛𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔_𝑄𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒, 𝑊𝑄←𝑊𝑎𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔_𝑄𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒
4: function Global_Schedule(𝐺𝑆)
5:
while 𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑒do
6:
if 𝐺𝑆𝑁𝐺.𝑖𝑠_𝑠𝑒𝑡() then
7:
𝑟𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑣.
𝑟∈𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇
.𝑢𝑝𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒(𝑟Meta.)

8:
Desc._Sort(𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇, 𝑘𝑒𝑦= 𝑟𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑣.)
9:
𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑡_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝←𝑟𝑐𝑢𝑟_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝
10:
for 𝑟∈𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇do
11:
𝑟𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑖𝑑𝑠
←
async Try_Best_Alloc.(𝑟, 𝐺𝑆𝐺, 𝑟𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑖𝑑𝑠)

12:
if len(𝑟𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑖𝑑𝑠) == 𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑡_𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑛𝑢𝑚then
13:
𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇.𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑜𝑣𝑒(𝑟)
14:
𝐺𝑆𝑁𝐺.𝑐𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑟()
15:
for 𝑟∈𝑊𝑄do
16:
𝑟𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑖𝑑𝑠←Try_Best_Alloc.(𝑟, 𝐺𝑆𝐺, ∅)
17:
if 𝑟𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑖𝑑𝑠≠∅then
18:
𝑊.𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑜𝑣𝑒(𝑟) && 𝑅.𝑎𝑑𝑑(𝑟)
19:
if len(𝑟𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑖𝑑𝑠) ≠𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑡_𝐺𝑃𝑈_𝑛𝑢𝑚then
20:
𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇.𝑎𝑑𝑑()
←
async 𝑟

We present the details of how DDiT schedules greedily in
Algorithm 2. We first define running, hungry, and waiting as
the statuses of requests in DDiT. Hungry refers to a running
request whose allocated GPUs are fewer than the optimal

number. We use a running queue (𝑅𝑄) or waiting queue
(𝑊𝑄) to place the corresponding request, while the hungry
request is stored in the priority table 𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇. In DDiT, the
hungry status is given higher priority than waiting requests,
considering the arrival time. Therefore, the core idea of our
scheduling policy is to supply additional GPUs to hungry
requests as needed while promptly allocating GPUs to new
incoming requests.
The new incoming request is initially set to a waiting
status and placed in 𝑊𝑄. The global scheduler manages
the scheduling of the request and communicates with the
resource allocator for GPU allocation. As described in lines
15 to 20 of Algorithm 2, the process starts from the optimal
GPU count and decreases incrementally to ensure timely
execution. If the allocated GPU count matches the optimal
value, the request is directly inserted into 𝑅𝑄and sent to the
engine unit with a control message. Otherwise, an additional
step is taken to mark the request as hungry and place it in
𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇.
We continuously check 𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑇for hungry requests to ac-
quire available resources. To prioritize DoP promotion, we
define the starvation time of requests, giving priority to
those with GPU allocations below the optimal number in e.q.
5, therefore, the 𝑟Meta. in line 7 refers to 𝑟𝑐𝑢𝑟_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝, 𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑡_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝,
𝑟𝑐𝑢𝑟_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒and 𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒. The 𝐺𝑆𝑁𝐺is triggered by the
step 4○and 6○in Figure 9.

C
Single-Node Performance II

This supplement to the single-node experiment in our evalu-
ation reveals a trend consistent with our earlier observations:
the higher the arrival rate, the more effective DDiT becomes.
As shown in Figure 16, across these resolution distributions,
DDiT achieves an average reduction of up to 30% in both p99
and average latencies.

15


0.5

1.0

Norm. P99 Lat.

0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 Burst

Arrival Rate

0.5

1.0

Norm. Avg. Lat.

L: M: H = 3: 6: 1

0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 Burst

Arrival Rate
L: M: H = 1: 3: 6

0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 Burst

Arrival Rate
L: M: H = 4: 2: 4

0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 Burst

Arrival Rate
L: M: H = 2: 4: 4

0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 Burst

Arrival Rate
L: M: H = 6: 2: 2

0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 Burst

Arrival Rate
L: M: H = 2: 6: 2

DDiT
Static DoP = 1

Static DoP = 2
Static DoP = 4

Static Part. & Cluster Isol.
Dynamic Part. & Cluster Isol.

Dynamic Part.

Figure 16. Single-node end-to-end performance II.

Time (s)

3.01
5.50
10.43

20.08

8.28

15.87

30.97

61.31

19.17

37.52

74.51

148.40

39.64

78.69

156.57

00M

DiT Latency (Parallel Size = 1)

DiT_144p
DiT_240p
DiT_360p
DiT_480p

0.16
0.30

0.59

1.17

0.38

0.75

1.48

2.93

0.87

1.68

3.31

6.58

1.69

3.31

6.52

00M

VAE Latency (Parallel Size = 1)

VAE_144p
VAE_240p
VAE_360p
VAE_480p

3.44
3.67
6.49
12.22
4.59
8.54

16.29

31.44

10.42

19.78

38.43

75.98

19.96

38.75

76.62

151.76
DiT Latency (Parallel Size = 2)

DiT_144p
DiT_240p
DiT_360p
DiT_480p

0.16
0.31
0.60
1.19
0.38
0.76

1.49

2.95

0.87

1.70

3.33

6.61

1.72

3.36

6.61

13.17
VAE Latency (Parallel Size = 2)

VAE_144p
VAE_240p
VAE_360p
VAE_480p

1
2
4
8
Batch Size

Time (s)

3.67
3.78
4.71
8.83
3.66
5.24

9.65

18.29

5.55

10.34

19.77

38.69

11.76

22.27

43.62

85.84
DiT Latency (Parallel Size = 4)

DiT_144p
DiT_240p
DiT_360p
DiT_480p

1
2
4
8
Batch Size

0.16
0.31
0.60
1.19
0.38
0.76

1.49

2.96

0.87

1.69

3.31

6.60

1.70

3.33

6.56

13.05
VAE Latency (Parallel Size = 4)

VAE_144p
VAE_240p
VAE_360p
VAE_480p

1
2
4
8
Batch Size

3.76
4.06
4.58
7.05

3.93

4.28

6.05

11.15

3.68

5.91

10.96

20.69

6.90

12.73

24.47

47.46
DiT Latency (Parallel Size = 8)

DiT_144p
DiT_240p
DiT_360p
DiT_480p

1
2
4
8
Batch Size

0.16
0.31
0.59
1.19
0.38
0.76

1.48

2.95

0.87

1.69

3.31

6.59

1.69

3.31

6.55

13.17
VAE Latency (Parallel Size = 8)

VAE_144p
VAE_240p
VAE_360p
VAE_480p

Figure 17. Characterization of DiT and VAE under various DoPs and batch sizes.

16


